Steps to install Windows from a USB device

1. CHECK FOR COMPATIBILITY
Windows 11 won’t work for every PC. At a minimum, your device must have the following specs:

64-bit processor with at least 2 cores and 1 GHz processing speed
4GB RAM
64GB storage space (in addition to the space for the operating system installation software)
DirectX 12 or later graphics card with WDDM 2.0 driver
A high-def display of 720p
TPM 2.0
Secure Boot-capable UEFI firmware
Can you still install Windows via USB if your PC isn't compatible? Possibly. You may still be able to download and install it on a computer that doesn't meet all of these requirements, but your experience may not be satisfactory.

2. CHECK YOUR DEVICE FOR AVAILABLE MEMORY
If you haven't cleaned up your computer's storage in a while, now is the best time. You'll need at least 5.1GB of extra storage space on all of the devices involved in this process because that’s the Windows 11 ISO file size.

You need 5.1GB free on the computer you’re downloading the file to, the USB drive, and the computer on which you’re installing the operating system. Not all USB drives have this much memory, and drives with just a bit more memory (6GB, for example) may not meet your needs. To be safe, buy a USB device with ample space to spare.

What if you can't find enough files to delete from your computer? Delete temporary files, any other files you no longer need, and any programs you can easily reinstall later. To be safe, make sure you have the purchase information and license keys for any programs you delete.

3. DOWNLOAD THE ISO FILE TO YOUR DEVICE (ANOTHER DEVICE)
Unlike prior versions of Microsoft Windows, you don’t need to sign in to your Microsoft account to download the ISO file. Just follow these steps:

Visit the Windows 11 product download page
Navigate to the Create Windows 11 installation media link, and click Download Now.
The download for the Media Creation Tool will begin.
Once the tool downloads, double-click on the file in your download and run it. You may be asked for permission to run the program, so go ahead and approve it.
Now that you have the Media Creation Tool running, follow the directions to download the ISO file (the file used to install Windows 11) to your device. Make sure you select USB Flash Drive when prompted to download the file directly to your USB drive and format it properly for installation later.
Once the download completes, move on to the next step.

4. REMOVE THE USB
When you receive a notification that the file transfer is finished, use the "eject" function on your USB utility to prepare it for removal before you pull it out of the computer.

5. RUN WINDOWS 11 FROM A USB
With the Windows 11 installation file on your thumb drive, you’re almost there! The USB flash drive should have been formatted properly when you used the Windows Media Creation Tool. You do not have to use a third-party application to make it bootable.

Plug the USB drive into the computer and restart the computer.
Before the computer fully turns back on, hold the F8 key. The exact command will depend on your computer. Note: You must do this before the Windows or manufacturer's brand logo appears on your screen. If you see the logo, you waited too long and must restart again.
When prompted, choose the boot order and select the USB drive option as first. You’ll then be told to press any key to continue booting from your specified location.
Your computer should start up as normal, but with Windows 11 prepared to install and run at the startup screen.
6. SET UP WINDOWS 11
Now that your PC is running on Windows 11, you need to set up your account and preferences for each time you log on. Many of these preferences are similar to Windows 10, but there are some differences.

To start using Windows 11, choose the language you want for installation, your time zone, currency format, and how you want to input data (for most people, this is the keyboard). There are some preset definitions to set, but you may not need to tinker with these additional settings.

With everything specified, click the Install Now button.

How to Download and Install Visual Studio for Windows
Step 1) Download Visual Studio

First, visit the following Visual Studio free download link https://visualstudio.microsoft.com/downloads/
You can select
Visual Studio 2019 Community Edition
Visual Studio 2019 Professional Edition (30 Day Free Trial)
Step 2) Open the .exe file

Click on the downloaded exe file

Step 3) Start the installation

In the next screen, click continue to start Visual Studio installation

Step 4) Let the installation complete

Visual Studio will start downloading the initial files. Download speed will vary as per your internet connection.
Step 5) Choose the software version
In next screen, click install
Step 6) Select the desktop version

In next screen,
Select “.Net desktop development”
Click install

Step 7) Wait for the files to be downloaded

Visual Studio will download the relevant files based on the selection in step 6
Step 8) Reboot your PC

Once the download is done, you will be asked to reboot the PC to complete Visual Studio setup
Step 9) Open Visual Studio

Post reboot, open the Visual Studio IDE

Select a theme of your choice
Click Start Visual Studio
Step 10) Start using Visual Studio
In Visual Studio IDE, you can navigate to File menu to create new projects


Challenges faced during the install
1) some programs were incompatible with the system.
2) the requerements so the installations some did not meet the standard